Mesa 21.2.1 Release Notes / 2021-08-19
======================================

Mesa 21.2.1 is a bug fix release which fixes bugs found since the 21.2.0 release.

Mesa 21.2.1 implements the OpenGL 4.6 API, but the version reported by
glGetString(GL_VERSION) or glGetIntegerv(GL_MAJOR_VERSION) /
glGetIntegerv(GL_MINOR_VERSION) depends on the particular driver being used.
Some drivers don't support all the features required in OpenGL 4.6. OpenGL
4.6 is **only** available if requested at context creation.
Compatibility contexts may report a lower version depending on each driver.

Mesa 21.2.1 implements the Vulkan 1.2 API, but the version reported by
the apiVersion property of the VkPhysicalDeviceProperties struct
depends on the particular driver being used.

SHA256 checksum
---------------

::

   2c65e6710b419b67456a48beefd0be827b32db416772e0e363d5f7d54dc01787  mesa-21.2.1.tar.xz


New features
------------

- None


Bug fixes
---------

- Possible miscompilation of a comparison with unsigned zero
- dEQP-VK.wsi.android.swapchain.create#image_swapchain_create_info crash on Android R
- Nine Regression with util: Switch the non-block formats to unpacking rgba rows instead of rects.
- panfrost G31 Unreal Tournament - various glitches (apitrace)
- Miscompilation of a switch case
- [radeonsi][regression] CPU is being used ~10 times more than usual after c5478f9067f.
- dEQP-VK.wsi.android.swapchain.create#image_swapchain_create_info crash on Android R


Changes
-------

Alyssa Rosenzweig (5):

- nir/lower_mediump_io: Don't remap base unless needed
- nir/lower_mediump: Fix metadata in all passes
- drm-shim: Support kernels with >4k pages
- panfrost: Fix leak of render node fd
- panfrost: Rewrite the clear colour packing code

Axel Davy (1):

- util: Fix translate from block compressed to rgba

Bas Nieuwenhuizen (10):

- util/fossilize_db: Update parsed_offset correctly.
- util/fossilize_db: Reset file position to parsed_offset on cache_offset read failure.
- util/fossilize_db: Flush files after header write.
- util/fossilize_db: Be conservative about header length check for locking.
- util/fossilize_db: Only allocate entries after full read.
- util/fossilize_db: Use uint64_t for file size.
- util/fossilize_db: Unlock the cache file if the entry already exists.
- util/fossilize_db: Add extra flock mutex.
- radv: Allocate space for inline push constants.
- radv: Use correct signedness in misalign test.

Boris Brezillon (1):

- panfrost: Fix pan_blitter_emit_bifrost_blend()

Charmaine Lee (1):

- aux/draw: Check for preferred IR to take nir-to-tgsi path in draw module

Chia-I Wu (2):

- iris, crocus: add idep_genxml to per_hw target dependencies
- venus: free queues after vkDestroyDevice is emitted

Dave Airlie (7):

- virgl: disable anisotropic filtering.
- wl/shm: don't fetch formats if not requested.
- crocus/blt: add pitch/offset checks to fix blt corruption
- crocus: align staging resource pitch on gen4/5 to allow BLT usage.
- intel/vec4: sel.cond writes the flags on Gfx4 and Gfx5
- crocus/blt: add pitch/offset checks to fix blt corruption
- crocus: align staging resource pitch on gen4/5 to allow BLT usage.

Dylan Baker (15):

- docs: Add sha256 sum for 21.2.0
- .pick_status.json: Update to 8918a809ced3551f822abb45d751d31b54ad67da
- .pick_status.json: Update to 6ccf11ac2b951963407601b5b1109b45a972e48e
- bin/gen_release_notes: Add basic tests for parsing issues
- bin/gen_release_notes: Don't consider issues for other projects
- bin/gen_release_notes: Fix commits with multiple Closes:
- .pick_status.json: Update to 0165fde82c41f94c5d6f432f9f444871405a7d49
- .pick_status.json: Update to 7ae3881a4bf989436b602b30b9a91602435e47a6
- .pick_status.json: Update to 0dd0a92b243487e83d8d96532873f319719248e5
- .pick_status.json: Update to 01b0935d315347cfd06bb5d8bb1a6b59913f94cc
- .pick_status.json: Update to 688d11e4e821ec3934abe571de9899390beceb54
- .pick_status.json: Update to 04bd2a12451160609b6f163e1a86437948a48fcd
- .pick_status.json: Update to 441e490f5a13d96255810f38260445437033be63
- .pick_status.json: Update to 726fdf3385428b52b773e9049ce6033d02c631c1
- .pick_status.json: Update to 35c3f5f08b7b11f3896412fb5778f127be329615

Eric Engestrom (5):

- pick-ui: drop assert that optional argument is passed
- pick-ui: show nomination type in the UI
- pick-ui: show commit date
- Revert "python: Explicitly add the 'L' suffix on Python 3"
- isl: drop left-over comment

Ian Romanick (3):

- intel/fs: sel.cond writes the flags on Gfx4 and Gfx5
- Revert "nir/algebraic: Convert some f2u to f2i"
- intel/fs: sel.cond writes the flags on Gfx4 and Gfx5

Icecream95 (2):

- pan/bi: Use the computed scale for fexp NaN propagation
- panfrost: Only allow colour blit shaders to be killed

Jason Ekstrand (2):

- intel/isl: Explicitly set offset_B = 0 in get_uncomp_surf for arrays
- intel/isl: Add a missing assert in isl_tiling_get_intratile_offset_sa

Jesse Natalie (1):

- CI: Update Windows quick_gl baseline for mysterious new passes

Lionel Landwerlin (3):

- anv: don't try to access Android swapchains
- nir/lower_shader_calls: remove empty phis
- anv/android: handle image bindings from gralloc buffers

Lucas Stach (2):

- renderonly: don't complain when GPU import fails
- etnaviv: always try to create KMS side handles for imported resources

Marcin Ślusarz (3):

- glsl: evaluate switch expression once
- nir/builder: invalidate metadata per function
- glsl/opt_algebraic: disable invalid optimization

Michel Dänzer (1):

- ci: Drop "success" job

Michel Zou (1):

- radv: fix build with mingw

Mike Blumenkrantz (2):

- zink: sum available memory heaps instead of assigning
- zink: simplify else clause for mem info gathering

Neha Bhende (1):

- aux/draw: use nir_to_tgsi for draw shader in llvm path

Pierre-Eric Pelloux-Prayer (3):

- st/pbo: only use x coord when reading a PIPE_TEXTURE_1D
- st/pbo: set nir_tex_instr::is_array field
- radeonsi: don't create an infinite number of variants

Rhys Perry (1):

- nir/algebraic: fix imod by negative power-of-two

Roland Scheidegger (1):

- aux/cso: try harder to keep cso state in sync on cso context unbind

Roman Stratiienko (3):

- AOSP: Extract version from libdrm instead of hardcoding it.
- AOSP: Update timestamps of target binaries
- lima: Implement lima_resource_get_param() callback

Samuel Pitoiset (2):

- radv: fix initializing the DS clear metadata value for separate aspects
- radv: flush caches before performing separate depth/stencil aspect init

Tapani Pälli (2):

- crocus: take a reference to memobj bo in crocus_resource_from_memobj
- crocus: disable depth and d+s formats with memory objects

Thong Thai (3):

- gallium/auxiliary/vl: Add additional deinterlace enum and tracking
- gallium/util: add half texel offset param to util_compute_blit
- frontends/va/postproc: Keep track of deinterlacing method being used

Timur Kristóf (2):

- aco: Use Navi 10 empty NGG output workaround on NGG culling shaders.
- radv: Write RSRC2_GS for NGGC when pipeline is dirty but not emitted.

Vinson Lee (2):

- meson: Remove duplicate xvmc in build summary.
- nir: Initialize evaluate_cube_face_index_amd dst.x.
